---
layout: post
title: "Installing Cochrane RevMan on Linux"
date: 2017-07-02 15:00
category: "Note to self"
tags: [Installation, Linux, RevMan]
---
[Cochrane RevMan](http://community.cochrane.org/tools/review-production-tools/revman-5) is a bit of software from [Cochrane](http://www.cochrane.org/). It acts as version control system, word processor and data analysis tool for authors of Cochrane systematic reviews. It can also be used for non Cochrane reviews. It can be a little fiddly to get working on Linux. These are my notes on this. I'm using Ubuntu based systems.

### Download

Open up a command line terminal and download the installer. Modify the permissions to allow it to execute.

```bash
wget http://community.cochrane.org/sites/default/files/uploads/inline-files/revman-downloads/RevMan_5_3_unix.sh
chmod +x RevMan_5_3_unix.sh

# Unless you have an old version of Java installed the next command will fail
./RevMan_5_3_unix.sh
```

### The right version of Java

The installer exits with an error asking for an obsolete version of the Java Virtual Machine - "The version of the JVM must be at least 1.6 and at most 1.7". Installing the default version of java with `sudo apt-get install default-jdk` gives too modern a version. It used to be possible to install older versions from a ppa but this seems to no longer work.

```bash
# This sequence of commands no longer works
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:webupd8team/java
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install oracle-jdk7-installer
```

Download directly from the [Oracle archive](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/java-archive-downloads-javase7-521261.html). This requires you to accept a licence agreement and register with the site. I chose `jre-7u80-linux-x64.tar.gz`. Once this has downloaded, open a terminal and go to the directory the file downloaded into. Unpack the java runtime environment and move it into the right place.

```bash
tar -xzf jre-7u80-linux-x64.tar.gz
sudo mv jre1.7.0_80/ /usr/lib/jvm/jre1.7.0_80
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/java java /usr/lib/jvm/jre1.7.0_80/bin/java 1
sudo update-alternatives --config java
```

The final command of the above block (`sudo update-alternatives --config java`) checks to see that the older version of Java has installed. If you have a more recent version of Java, this will also be displayed and will hopefully be the currently selected version. You do not need to change this - press *enter* to exit the programme.

The RevMan installer should now run successfully. Make sure you are back in the correct directory if you changed directories for the Java download.

```bash
# This should now work
./RevMan_5_3_unix.sh
```

### Cleaning up afterwards

Remove all the temporary files

```bash
rm RevMan_5_3_unix.sh
rm jre-7u80-linux-x64.tar.gz
```

Phew. This should all become redundant in the near future if RevMan moves over to a [web app](http://community.cochrane.org/tools/review-production-tools/revman-web).
